---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
excerpt: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome to my personal website!

I am a fourth-year PhD candidate from [Environmental Economics and Natural Resources Group (ENR) group](https://www.wur.nl/en/research-results/chair-groups/social-sciences/environmental-economics-and-natural-resources-group.htm) in [Wageningen University & Research](https://www.wur.nl/). **My research interests include integrated environmental-economic modelling, sustainable food provision, food-land-water-climate nexus, and environmental impact assessment of the food chain**. I am supervised by Associate Prof. Dr. [Xueqin Zhu](https://research.wur.nl/en/persons/xueqin-zhu), Associate Prof. Dr. [Hans-Peter Weikard](https://research.wur.nl/en/persons/hans-peter-weikard), Prof. Dr. [Oene Oenema](https://research.wur.nl/en/persons/oene-oenema) from [Wageningen University & Research](https://www.wur.nl/), as well as Prof. Dr. [Yong Hou](https://faculty.cau.edu.cn/hy100/list.htm) from [China Agricultural university](https://en.cau.edu.cn/). I will be conducting research as a visiting PhD student at the [University of California, Davis](https://www.ucdavis.edu/) under the supervision of Dr. [Luis M. Peña-Lévano](https://www.vetmed.ucdavis.edu/faculty/luis-m-pena-levano) from October 2024 to January 2025. 

With over 6+ years of experience as a researcher and economist, I specialise in integrated environmental-economic modelling and impact assessment. My expertise lies in applying quantitative modelling approaches to explore mitigation pathways for sustainable food systems. **My PhD dissertation focuses on assessing the impacts of food system transformation pathways—such as supply-side and demand-side measures, and environmental policies—at the regional, national, and global levels.** I employ an integrated environmental-economic modelling approach based on a computable general equilibrium framework that is able to represent regional consumption, production, environmental variables, and international trade with other regions. I have published 9 scientific papers in peer-reviewed journals, including one first-authored paper published in **Environmental Science & Technology (JCR: Q1; IF= 11.4)** and one co-authored paper published in **Nature Food (JCR: Q1; IF=23.2)**. 

You can reach me at weitong.long@wur.nl. 
You can find my CV here: [Weitong Long's Curriculum Vitae](assets/20240706_CV_Weitong Long.pdf)

**I am expected to receive my PhD in September 2025. Currently, I am seeking academic opportunities for the 2024-2025 academic year. I am available for interviews at both the European Job Market (EJME) and the Allied Social Science Associations (ASSA).**

# 📖 Education
- *2020.09 - 2025.09 (Expected)*: PhD Candidate of Economics in Environmental and Natural Resource Economics, [Wageningen University & Research](https://www.wur.nl/) (supervised by Associate Prof. Dr. [Xueqin Zhu](https://research.wur.nl/en/persons/xueqin-zhu), Associate Prof. Dr. [Hans-Peter Weikard](https://research.wur.nl/en/persons/hans-peter-weikard), Prof. Dr. [Oene Oenema](https://research.wur.nl/en/persons/oene-oenema), and Prof. Dr. [Yong Hou](https://faculty.cau.edu.cn/hy100/list.htm)), Wageningen, The Netherlands.
- *2024.10 - 2025.01*: Visiting PhD Student, [University of California, Davis](https://www.ucdavis.edu/) (supervised by Dr. [Luis M. Peña-Lévano](https://www.vetmed.ucdavis.edu/faculty/luis-m-pena-levano)), California, United States.
- *2020.09 - 2021.09*: Visiting PhD Student, [China Agricultural university](https://en.cau.edu.cn/) (supervised by Prof. Dr. [Yong Hou](https://faculty.cau.edu.cn/hy100/list.htm)), Beijing, China.
- *2018.09 - 2020.06*: Master of Agriculture in Plant Nutrition, [China Agricultural university](https://en.cau.edu.cn/) (supervised by Prof. Dr. [Yong Hou](https://faculty.cau.edu.cn/hy100/list.htm)), Beijing, China.
- *2014.09 - 2018.06*: Bachelor of Agriculture in Agricultural Resources and Environment (Dual Bachelor of Arts in English), [Hunan Agricultural University](https://en.hunau.edu.cn/), Changsha, China. 

# 🔥 News
- *2024*: &nbsp; Oral presentations delivered at the III Economy for The Common Good International Conference (ECGIC) (Leeuwarden, Fryslân, The Netherlands) and European Association of Environmental and Resource Economists (EAERE) 29th Annual Conference (Leuven, Belgium). 
- *2023*: &nbsp; A poster presentation delivered at the XVII European Association of Agricultural Economists (EAAE) Congress (Rennes, France) and an oral presentation delivered at the EAERE Summer School (University of Graz, Graz, Austria).
- *2023*: &nbsp;🎉 One co-authored paper published in Nature Food (JCR: Q1; IF= 23.2).
- *2022*: &nbsp; One second-authored paper published in Animal Feed Science and Technology (JCR: Q1; IF=3.2).
- *2021*: &nbsp;🎉 One first-authored paper published in Environmental Science & Technology (JCR: Q1; IF=11.4).
- *2020*: &nbsp; One second-authored paper published in Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment (JCR: Q1; IF=6.6).

# 📝 Key Publications 
**Citations (Google Scholar: 06/07/2024): total=152; h-index=7; i-10=6**
- **Long, W.**, Wang, H., Hou, Y., Chadwick, D., Ma, Y., Cui, Z., & Zhang, F. (2021). [Mitigation of Multiple Environmental Footprints for China's Pig Production Using Different Land Use Strategies](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.est.0c08359), **Environmental Science and Technology (JCR: Q1; IF=11.4)**, 55(8), 4440-4451.  
**<ins>Abstract</ins>**: Pig production contributes considerably to land use and greenhouse gas (GHG) and reactive nitrogen (Nr) emissions. Land use strategies were widely proposed, but the spillover effects on biological flow are rarely explored. Here, we simultaneously assessed the carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and cropland footprints of China’s pig production at the provincial scale in 2017. The environmental impacts of land use strategies were further evaluated. Results show that one kg live-weight pig production generated an average of 1.9 kg CO2-equiv and 59 g Nr emissions, occupying 3.5 m2 cropland, with large regional variations. A large reduction in GHG (58–64%) and Nr (12–14%) losses and occupied cropland (10–11%) could be achieved simultaneously if combined strategies of intensive crop production, improved feed-protein utilization efficiency, and feeding co-products were implemented. However, adopting a single strategy may have environmental side-effects. Reallocating cropland that pigs used for feed to plant food alternatives would enhance human-edible energy (3–20 times) and protein delivery (1–5 times) and reduce C and N footprints, except for rice and vegetables. Reallocating cropland to beef and milk production would decrease energy and protein supply. Therefore, a proper combination of land use strategies is essential to alleviate land use changes and nutrient emissions without sacrificing food supply. 

- Wang, H., **Long, W.**, Chadwick, D., Velthof, G. L., Oenema, O., Ma, W., ... & Zhang, F. (2020). [Can dietary manipulations improve the productivity of pigs with lower environmental and economic cost? A global meta-analysis](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167880919303640?via%3Dihub), **Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment (JCR: Q1; IF=6.6)**, 289, 106748.  
**<ins>Abstract</ins>**: Inappropriate management of pig manure contributes considerably to pollution of waterbodies by nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P), and to air pollution by ammonia (NH3) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S) emissions. Dietary manipulation is recognized as a possible pollution mitigation measure, but it may affect pig growth and thereby production costs. Here we present a global meta-analysis of the effects of dietary manipulation on nutrient (N and P) excretion, gaseous (NH3 and H2S) emissions from manure, and growth performance of pigs, using data from 245 published studies. Four groups of dietary manipulation were distinguished, namely i) lowering dietary crude protein (CP) content, (ii) supplementing exogenous enzymes, (iii) supplementing fermented feed ingredients, and (iv) supplementing other additives (e.g. fermentable carbohydrates, acidifying agent/salts and probiotics) in feed. In addition, the cost-effectiveness of dietary manipulations was evaluated, expressed as US $ per kg N excretion abated. Results show that lowering CP content significantly reduced both total N excretion (28.5%) and NH3 emissions (34.4%). Addition of protease reduced N excretion (18.2%) but did not affect NH3 emissions. Supplementing other additives simultaneously reduced NH3 emissions (21.5%) and H2S emissions (23.2%). Adding phytase to feed significantly decreased total P excretion by 31.4%. Diets with fermented feed ingredients tended to decrease N excretion and emissions, but this effect was not statistically significant. All dietary manipulations significantly improved the growth performance regarding the weight gain and feed efficiency, except for lowering CP content. But lowering dietary CP content within a moderate level in combination with adding additional amino acids did not impair pig growth. The cost-effectiveness analysis indicated that various diary manipulation measures were economically beneficial to farmers through improved feed-to-meat conversion efficiency. Our results can support to the design of proper dietary formulations so as to simultaneously reduce N and P excretion and associated emissions, meanwhile enhance the growth performance of pigs with lower economic cost.

- Wang, H., **Long, W.**, Chadwick, D., Zhang, X., Zhang, S., Piao, X., & Hou, Y. (2022). [Dietary acidifiers as an alternative to antibiotics for promoting pig growth performance: A systematic review and meta-analysis](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377840122001183?via%3Dihub), **Animal Feed Science and Technology (JCR: Q1; IF=3.2)**, 115320.  
**<ins>Abstract</ins>**: The over-use of antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) in livestock husbandry may have contributed on creating environmental and human health hazards. A number of acidifiers as alternative to AGPs, has been added into diets to prevent the post-weaning syndrome in pigs. However, the effect of feed acidifiers on growth performance of pigs is not consistently positive, especially in comparison with the AGPs. A systematic review and a meta-analysis were therefore conducted to determine the acidifiers those are most consistent on improving growth performance when supplemented to pig diets. Data bases (Web of Science) were searched from 1990 to 2019, unrestricted by language. Fifty-two articles were selected to assess the effects of acidifiers on average daily gain (ADG), average daily feed intake (ADFI) and feed efficiency (G:F), through the side-by-side comparisons with control diets or antibiotic supplemented diets. These acidifiers investigated in the present study were classified into four categories: organic acids, inorganic acids, salts of acids and blends of acids. Results indicated that supplementation of diets with acidifiers had positive effects on growth performance (+6.7 and +5.0% for ADG and G:F, respectively; P < 0.01) in comparison with control diets, and the most consistent improvement was observed in nursery-growing pigs (< 60 kg). In comparison with antibiotic supplementation, the acidifier-supplemented diets had the similar G:F, but lower ADG and ADFI. Furthermore, blends of acids are superior to individual organic acids or salts of acids on improving growth performance in pigs. In conclusion, addition of a range of acidifiers could provide a significant improvement in pig growth, although acidifiers were less effective than antibiotics in the most cases.

- Tong, B., Zhang, L., Hou, Y., Oenema, O., **Long, W.**, Velthof, G. L., ... & Zhang, F. (2020). [Lower pork consumption and technological change in feed production can reduce the pork supply chain environmental footprint in China](https://www.nature.com/articles/s43016-022-00640-6), **Nature Food (JCR: Q1; IF=23.2)**, 1-10.  
**<ins>Abstract</ins>**: Nearly half of global pork production and consumption occurs in China, but the transition towards intensification is associated with worsening environmental impacts. Here we explore scenarios for implementing structural and technological changes across the pork supply chain to improve environmental sustainability and meet future demand. Following the middle-of-the-road socio-economic pathway (SSP2), we estimate that the environmental footprint from the pork supply chain will increase by ~50% from 2017 to 2050. Utilizing technologies that improve feed crop production and manure management could reduce phosphorus and nitrogen losses by three-quarters and one-third, respectively, with modest reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and cropland area. Reducing pork consumption had substantial mitigation potential. Increased feed and pork imports would decrease domestic environmental footprints and meet demand, but increase footprints elsewhere. We conclude that farm-specific technologies and structural adjustments can support the development of rural, small-scale pig farms near cropland and promote circular economy principles.

# 📜 Working Papers
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (Under Review at **Sustainable Production and Consumption, JCR: Q1; IF=12.1**). How can sustainable food production and consumption in China be achieved?  
**<ins>Abstract</ins>**: Our food system drives global environmental change, and differences in environmental concerns of consumers may cause negative environmental 'spillover effects' in less concerned countries. Using an integrated environmental-economic modelling framework and scenario analyses, we explored options for more sustainable food systems and to mitigate the negative environmental spillovers  from trading partners to China. We found that doubling soy-based food (SBF) consumption while reducing pork consumption in China decreased Chinese economy-wide emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) by 1% and acidification pollutants by 3%. However, it increased Chinese economy-wide emissions of eutrophication pollutants by 2%, driven by the increased SBF and other food production with relatively high emission intensities of eutrophication pollutants. Combining a dietary shift with the adoption of cleaner cereals production technology for half of the current resources used for cereals production decreased Chinese economy-wide emissions of GHGs by 1%, acidification pollutants by 7%, and eutrophication pollutants by 3%, but required capital reallocation from other sectors. Implementing a unilateral environmental policy in China (i.e., implementing economy-wide taxes on emissions to reduce emissions of all pollutants by 3%) increased economy-wide emissions of GHGs in trading partners by 2%. This ‘carbon leakage’ emerges due to the shift of production of products with relatively high emission intensities (i.e., nitrogen fertiliser and livestock) from China to its trading partners through international trade. We can, therefore, draw the following policy implication: achieving sustainable food production and consumption requires joint efforts from consumers and producers as well as coordinated environmental policy across countries in the world. Our study offers policymakers insights into designing effective policies for more sustainable food systems and sheds light on trade-offs among competing environmental and economic goals.
  
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (**Job Market Paper**, Submitted to a Peer-reviewed Journal). The asymmetric impacts of feeding China’s monogastric livestock with food waste on food security and environment sustainability.  
**<ins>Abstract</ins>**: Around 1.3 billion tonnes of food waste are produced in the world, which are mainly disposed in landfills and incinerators, and are a significant source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. While feeding animals with food waste may decrease such emissions, potential "rebound effect" remain unexplored. We used an integrated environmental-economic modelling framework to assess the impacts of upcycling food waste in China’s monogastric livestock production in a global context. We found that upcycling 54-100% of food waste as feed increased monogastric livestock production (25-37%) and average wage across the Chinese economy (0.18-0.22%), with negative indirect effects such as increased total agricultural land use (0.5-0.6%) and economy-wide emissions of acidification (3-6%) and eutrophication (0.5-0.8%) pollutants in China. Synergy effects from less food waste in landfills and incinerators, along with the contraction in non-food production, decreased Chinese economy-wide GHG emissions (0.5-0.9%). While feeding food waste strategies enhanced food availability (6-12 kcal capita-1 day-1) and affordability (0.38-0.49%) in China, it slightly reduced food availability (0.5-1.0 kcal capita-1 day-1) and increased affordability (0.18-0.22%) in its trading partners. Our results highlight the asymmetric impacts of feeding China’s monogastric livestock with food waste on food security and environment sustainability, urging complementary measures and policies to mitigate negative spillovers when promoting more circular food systems. 

# 👩‍🏫 Teaching
During my PhD studies at Wageningen University & Research, I have been acting as the teaching assistant for the Master-level courses (Principles of climate change economics and policy, 2022; Economic modelling of sustainability challenges, 2023 & 2024) and supervising Master's thesis (2023 & 2024). 

**Teaching Assistant, Wageningen University & Research**
- ENR32806: Economic modelling of sustainability challenges (with Xueqin Zhu & Jack Peerlings), Master level, 6 ECTS, Spring semester 2023 & 2024). 
- ENR22806: Principles of climate change economics and policy (with Xueqin Zhu & Ina Möller), Master level, 6 ECTS, Winter semester 2022. 

**Co-supervisor of Master Thesis, Wageningen University & Research**	  
- Master thesis: Kehan Qiu (with Rolf Groeneveld), 12/2023-06/2024.
- Master thesis: Huangshu Zhao (with Hans-Peter Weikard), 03/2023-09/2023.
- Master thesis: Jia Zhou (with Xueqin Zhu), 03/2022-09/2022.

**Chair of Master Thesis Ring, Wageningen University & Research**	  
- Organised weekly meetings for Master students to discuss their written thesis, 01/2022-12/2022. 

# 💬 Conference Presentations
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (07/2024). Quantifying the environmental and economic impacts of feeding China’s monogastric livestock with food waste: a general equilibrium approach. Oral presentation to be delivered at the EAERE 29th Annual Conference, Leuven, Belgium.
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (06/2024). Quantifying the environmental and economic impacts of feeding China’s monogastric livestock with food waste: a general equilibrium approach. Oral presentation delivered at the III ECGIC, Leeuwarden, Fryslân, The Netherlands.
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (05/2024). The asymmetric impacts of feeding China’s monogastric livestock with food waste on food security and environment sustainability. Oral presentation delivered at the 9th Sino-Dutch Agriculture Green Development (AGD) Symposium, Wageningen University & Research, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (08/2023). Integrated Environmental-economic modelling of sustainable food systems in China. Poster presentation delivered at the XVII EAAE Congress, Rennes, France.
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (07/2023). Integrated Environmental-economic modelling of sustainable food systems in China. Oral presentation delivered at the EAERE Summer School, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (02/2023). Environmental trade-offs of dietary structure change can be alleviated by cleaner technology and emission restriction. Oral presentation delivered at the 7th Sino-Dutch AGD Symposium, Wageningen University & Research, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
- **Long, W.**, Zhu, X., Weikard, H.P., Oenema, O., Hou, Y. (10/2022). An environmental-economic framework for assessing the impacts of adjustments in crop and livestock systems. Oral presentation delivered at the Wageningen School of Social Sciences (WASS) PhD Day, Wageningen University & Research, Wageningen, The Netherlands.

# 🎖 Honors and Awards
- *2024.07*: Junior Researcher Grant from Wageningen School of Social Sciences (WASS) (4000 €).
- *2023.06*: Travel Grant from the LEB Foundation to participate in the XVII EAAE Congress (750 €).
- *2020.08*: Excellent Master’s Degree Thesis of Chinese Society (Awarded to the 0.1% best master thesis in the research field of Plant Nutrition and Fertilizer Science).
- *2019.10*: The First-Class Master Academic Scholarship of China Agricultural University (Top 1%). 
- *2018.11*: The First Prize of China Agricultural University English Speech Contest (Top 1%). 
- *2015.09*: The Third Prize of the National English Contest for Chinese College Students (Top 3%). 

# 💻 Skills
- **Programming**: General Algebraic Modeling System (GAMS, advanced, e.g. model establishment), General Equilibrium Modelling PACKage (GEMPACK, intermediate), R (intermediate).
- **Modelling**: Applied general equilibrium (AGE) modelling, life cycle assessment (LCA), input-output (I-O) analysis, material flow analysis (MFA), and meta-analysis.
- **Software**: ArcGIS, Simapro, Latex, and Microsoft Office.
- **Languages**: Native to Mandarin Chinese. Strong reading, writing and speaking competencies in English. 
